C++ Project 6
1 point

Goals:
1. Learn how to use constants
2. Learn how to access E and PI as math constants
3. Learning other math functions

To get started:
To create a new project, click Create a new project. Then click Empty Project. Click Next

For the Project name, type Prog6. Click the 3 dots (...) for the location. Select the Prog6 folder you created above. No other options need to be changed for now. Click Create.

If an advertising window appears, click the little X at the top left.

To add a file (a class), right click on Source files. Go to Add → New Item…
Type Prog6 for the file name. NO SPACES. Click Add.

A constant is a variable that once declared cannot be changed.

Constants are added with the keyword const and this keyword is added before the declaration of a variable.

Constant variables are declared in ALL CAPS and underscores (_) are used to separate words.

For example, if I declare a constant:
const int I = 4;

I cannot change the value of I throughout the program, and if I try to, I receive a syntax error.

There are two constants that are previously defined in C++: E and PI.

To access them, you need to import them.

The very first line of your program, add the line:
#define _USE_MATH_DEFINES

You can now use constants M_PI and M_E. These constants are variables that represent PI and E, respectively. You can find the values online if you wish.

PI has a numerical representation of about 3.14159. E has a mathematical representation of 2.71828.

Previously, from Prog 3, you learned about the math function: pow(a, b). It calculates ab.

There are many other functions in the cmath class:
cos(a)
sin(a)
tan(a)
acos(a)
asin(a)
atan(a)
fmin(a, b) (There is also a min(a, b) function also exists, but it is not located in cmath)
fmax(a, b) (There is also a max(a, b) function also exists, but it is not located in cmath)
abs(a)
sqrt(a)
cbrt(a)
And many others. You can see the functions in the cmath class here: https://cplusplus.com/reference/cmath/ 
You should look at the return types so you can see what kind of variable they yield.
You do not need to import the cmath class.

Your goal is:
1. Declare a constant variable of your own and print the value to the screen.
2. Display both PI and E to the screen using the constants predefined in C++.
3. Use at least 4 math functions in your program and display the results to the screen.
