C++ Project 4
1 point

Goals:
1. Learn how to use variables
2. Learn various data types

To get started:
To create a new project, click Create a new project. Then click Empty Project. Click Next

For the Project name, type Prog4. Click the 3 dots (...) for the location. Select the Prog4 folder you created above. No other options need to be changed for now. Click Create.

If an advertising window appears, click the little X at the top left.

To add a file (a class), right click on Source files. Go to Add → New Item…
Type Prog4 for the file name. NO SPACES. Click Add.

Variables are entities in a program that can be modified at any point.

In order to use a variable, it must be declared in the following context:
type var;

You can also (and preferably) declare a variable and initialize it in one step:
type var = value;

Every variable has a data type associated with it.
Variables can either be primitive (endemic to C++) or defined by a class.

There are technically 7 primitive data types, which are as follows:
bool, char, int, float, double, void, wchar_t

We will only concern ourselves with bool, char, int, float, double
bool - Boolean value (true / false) (1 bit)
char - single character defined in ‘ and ’ (1 byte)
int - integer values from -231 to (231 - 1) (4 bytes)
float - decimal values from 1.401E-45 to 3.403E38, positive and negative (4 bytes)
double - decimal values from 4.941E-324 to 1.798E308, positive and negative (8 bytes)

There are other integer data types like a short and a long, and we can make these values unsigned as well, but for now, it’s not necessary to know this.

There is one other data type that is important and that is a string. A string is a sequence of characters inside of “ “.
A string is defined by a class, so it is not a primitive type.

We have dealt with string literals in Prog 1, Prog 2, and Prog 3 because they were not attached to a variable. It is simply a block of text that cannot be reused.

Variable naming conventions should be as follows:
1. Lowercase letter to start
2. No spaces at all for the name (required)
3. Avoid special symbols other than underscore or $.
4. Cannot use keywords as variable names (like int, float, double, etc.)
5. Cannot use special identifiers as variable names (like main, sqrt, min, etc.)
6. Be descriptive but do not make the variable name too long.

Your task is to:
Use all 6 types of variables in a program. For the int, float, and double types, you can perform mathematical operations with them, just make sure you do not assign a decimal value to an int type. You may perform string concatenation with the string data type.

Print all 6 of these variables to the screen. Perform math with the 3 numeric types. Perform string concatenation with the string type.

You should have a total of 10 cout statements.


