Java Project 15 - 3rd MP
1 point

Eclipse
1. Inside of the Java folder you created, create another folder called Java15
2. Open up the Eclipse Icon on your Desktop
3. Navigate to the Java15 directory you created and select that folder
4. Click the Restore Icon on the left (it looks like a small windows button)
3. Go to File -> New -> Java Project
4. Type in the name of the project - Java15 and click Finish
5. Right click on the project on the left (in this case Java15) and go to New -> Class
7. Type in Java15 as the filename
8. Check the box for public static void main(String[] args) in the middle of the window.
9. Click Ok.
10. Press Enter before the opening brace on the first line.
11. Press Enter before the other opening brace on the 2nd or 3rd line.
12. You are ready to start your program.

Part 1:
You will be discovering how random numbers function in the Java environment.

In order to create a random number, you need to utilize the Random class.

First, you will need to import this class using:
import java.util.Random;
Or
import java.util.*;

Then, you will need to create a Random object similar to the Scanner object used for user input:
Random r = new Random();

Now you have to create a Random integer.

For instance, to create a random integer from 0 to n, use the code:
int rand = r.nextInt(n);

For example, if you want a random integer from 5 to 10, including 5, but not 10, you would use:
int rand = r.nextInt(5) + 5;

Here, we are creating a random integer from 0 to 5 (not including 5), and then adding 5 to it.

Your goal is to create 1000 random numbers between 1000 and 1999 inclusive.

You are to find the sum of these numbers, and then the average. Display the average to the screen.


Part 2:
Create a Project and File named Java15a.

There is another way to create a random number, and this uses the Math class. No class needs to be imported this way.

To create a random decimal number from 0 to 1 (0 inclusive, 1 exclusive), you would use the code:
double rand = Math.random();

If you want to create a random integer from 10 to 15 (10 inclusive, 15 exclusive), use the code:
int rand = (int) (Math.random() * 5) + 10;

Here, we are changing the type of the decimal number to an integer by a process known as typecasting.

Typecasting allows the programmer to change the type of a variable or other arithmetic. Here we are casting a double as an int.

Your goal is to perform the same task as above, but using the Math.random() algorithm.
