Java Project 4 - 3rd MP
1 point

Eclipse
1. Inside of the Java folder you created, create another folder called Java4
2. Open up the Eclipse Icon on your Desktop
3. Navigate to the Java4 directory you created and select that folder
4. Click the Restore Icon on the left (it looks like a small windows button)
3. Go to File -> New -> Java Project
4. Type in the name of the project - Java4 and click Finish
5. Right click on the project on the left (in this case Java4) and go to New -> Class
7. Type in Java4 as the filename
8. Check the box for public static void main(String[] args) in the middle of the window.
9. Click Ok.
10. Press Enter before the opening brace on the first line.
11. Press Enter before the other opening brace on the 2nd or 3rd line.
12. You are ready to start your program.

The goal of this project is to utilize user input.

To begin, whenever you receive user input, you need to utilize the Scanner class.
This means you have to import the class into your program.
To do this, type one of the following two lines at the top of your code - the very first line of your file:
1. import java.util.Scanner;
2. import java.util.*;

Inside of the program (where the actual code goes), you need to create a Scanner object. The code for this object is as follows:
Scanner s = new Scanner(System.in);

Your goal is to receive a String from a user and display it to the screen.

To store a String in a variable, you need to declare the variable as a String.
String x = "";

Prompt the user to enter a String.

The code to store the string should look similar to:
x = s.nextLine();

Now, you can place this variable inside of a print statement.

Display the variable to the screen as follows:
System.out.println(x);

You can also have numeric user input.

For example, if the required input were a double type, we would use:
double y = s.nextDouble();

If the required input were an int type, we would use:
int z = s.nextInt();

It is important that only ONE Scanner variable is declared per class file. 

One very important comment:
When transitioning from user input from a numeric type to a String, you MUST include a dummy variable in between the numeric and String types.

For example:

System.out.print("Please enter your age: ");
int age = s.nextInt();
System.out.print("Please enter your name: ");
String dummy = s.nextLine();
String name = s.nextLine();

This will prevent the name variable from eating the Enter key.

You can now print the variables as follows:
System.out.println(name + " is " + age + " years old");

You do not need a dummy variable for the reverse. Observe:
System.out.print("Please enter your name: ");
String name = s.nextLine();
System.out.print("Please enter your age: ");
int age = s.nextInt();

You can now print the variables as follows:
System.out.println(name + " is " + age + " years old");

At the end of your file, you should close your Scanner variable to prevent memory leaks as follows:
s.close();

Your goal is to experiment with input and output utilizing variables.
