Java Project 7 - 3rd MP
1 point

Eclipse
1. Inside of the Java folder you created, create another folder called Java7
2. Open up the Eclipse Icon on your Desktop
3. Navigate to the Java7 directory you created and select that folder
4. Click the Restore Icon on the left (it looks like a small windows button)
3. Go to File -> New -> Java Project
4. Type in the name of the project - Java7 and click Finish
5. Right click on the project on the left (in this case Java7) and go to New -> Class
7. Type in Java7 as the filename
8. Check the box for public static void main(String[] args) in the middle of the window.
9. Click Ok.
10. Press Enter before the opening brace on the first line.
11. Press Enter before the other opening brace on the 2nd or 3rd line.
12. You are ready to start your program.

The goal of this project is to familiarize yourself with conditionals.

There are 3 types of conditional statements:
if - if the boolean expression is true, perform this action (always the first statement in a conditional)
else - if the boolean expression is false, perform this action (always the last statement in a conditional)
else if - used for 3 or more conditions, put after if statement and before else statement

Only one of the above statements will execute. An else if statement is needed with 3 or more conditions. An else is needed with exactly 2 statements. When there is only one condition, you just utilize an if statement with no else or else if.

The syntax is as follows:
if (boolean condition)
{
   Code here;
}
else if (boolean condition)
{
   Code here;
}
… (more else if statements if necessary)
else
{
   Code here;
}

This project will utilize all 3 setups.
First declare a Scanner variable:
Scanner s = new Scanner (System.in);

Create 3 int variables: age, num, year

First, prompt the user to enter an age.
Define age as follows:
age = s.nextInt();

You’ve already seen .nextLine(); which will get user input as a String. 
.nextInt() will get user input as an int

Then prompt the user to enter a favorite number.
Define num as follows:
num = s.nextInt();

Then prompt the user to enter the year you graduate.
Define year as follows:
year = s.nextInt();

Display to the screen the following:
1. If the user’s age is less than 18, display "You are young"

2. 
a. If the user’s favorite number is less than 100, display "Cool number!", otherwise (if the number is greater than or equal to 100) 
b. display "Way cool number!"

3. 
a. If the class year is 2027, display "Freshman"
b. If the class year is 2026, display "Sophomore"
c. If the class year is 2025, display "Junior"
d. If the class year is 2024, display "Senior"
