Java Project 10 - 3rd MP
1 point

Eclipse
1. Inside of the Java folder you created, create another folder called Java10
2. Open up the Eclipse Icon on your Desktop
3. Navigate to the Java10 directory you created and select that folder
4. Click the Restore Icon on the left (it looks like a small windows button)
3. Go to File -> New -> Java Project
4. Type in the name of the project - Java10 and click Finish
5. Right click on the project on the left (in this case Java10) and go to New -> Class
7. Type in Java10 as the filename
8. Check the box for public static void main(String[] args) in the middle of the window.
9. Click Ok.
10. Press Enter before the opening brace on the first line.
11. Press Enter before the other opening brace on the 2nd or 3rd line.
12. You are ready to start your program.

The goal of this project is to familiarize yourself with various Math methods.

You may use either a while loop or a for loop. Most programmers use for loops, and these are the type of loops I will generally use for the rest of the semester.

Make sure all output is accurate and is presented in a user-friendly way.

There are 5 mathematical operators in Java:
+ → addition of two numbers
- → subtraction of two numbers
* → multiplication of two numbers
/ → integer division of two numbers
% → remainder of two numbers

There are a bunch of mathematical methods as well:
Math.random() → creates a random number between 0 and 1 (returns a double)
Math.pow(x, y) → utilizes exponents in a xy fashion (returns a double)
Math.sqrt(x) → finds the square root of x (returns a double)
Math.cbrt(x) → finds the cube root of x (returns a double)
Math.round(x) → rounds x to the nearest whole number (returns a long)
Math.min(x, y) → finds the minimum of two numbers (returns the type of x and y)
Math.max(x, y) → finds the maximum of two numbers (returns the type of x and y)
Math.abs(x) → finds the absolute value of a number (returns the type of x)

Your goal is to display the square roots of all numbers from 0 to 10
You are to do this utilizing two of the methods above

